hello hello could people sitting on the
end of the rows here please squeeze in
want to leave enough space because
they're still people gonna be trickling
in thank you
just find a seat that's that's my seat
right then hello everybody my name's Tom
I will not be giving this talk I'm just
here to introduce David hello everyone
Tom's already given pep talks for but I
haven't finished introducing yet i'm i
it's only gonna take about 30 minutes to
the introduction so you're good with
five here yeah now I've known David for
years now I work with it worked with him
for a long time and he's kind of one of
the best UX guys I know so so I hope you
really enjoyed the talk thank you for
staying so late this I know this is the
last one and David's promised he's gonna
you know cut it short so we can all go
and get some beer so ran reports were
David
[Applause]
alright hey everyone if this title of
the talk was very click bTW I think I
succeeded there's a lot of people here I
can also disappoint you right away you
won't you won't be getting ready made
dashboards to solve all your kubernetes
problems but I hope I can inspire you to
follow a couple of practices that we
identified I useful and so just real
quick about about myself I'm David
working at Cortana no I used to work
with Tom already at week Forks and
causal and now I'm a bit more interested
in UX and also got really excited by
things like this so has anyone taken the
metro fun on like on on a way to the
conference centre because initially I
thought well taxi is good but it was
really really a lot of traffic here so
we switched over to the Metro and then I
just saw people get frustrated with this
with this door handle so who here thinks
they have to remove the lever to the
right yeah ok so you will all have
problems writing the Barcelona Metro yes
so it turns out you have to move to left
there is even a little a signifier you
can't see it it's because it's so so
small telling you to move it to the left
yeah but good luck with this anyway and
I found this was a perfect segue also an
intro to how - pudding for kubernetes
like shouldn't happen because usually
when things are on fire you don't want
to be in front of a confused - boarding
situation so I so he'd be hard and the
first thing about on Cola but I also
learned about con call is one call is
hard coincidentally Tom and I founded a
company a couple of years ago and I'm
more of a front-end person but in Tom
did all the backend stuff and the dev of
stuff and then this one weekend he said
David I'm gonna
to a heavy metal festival and you need
to watch the servers and I was freaking
out and I learned some things on it in
their time on there's hard on call like
difficult on call but that's also an
easy time for one call where you can
where not much is going on you can work
on some features eliminate some toil and
but there's also bad times when when you
get paged and then you have to respond
to incidents do some firefighting and I
was just hoping that it was never in the
time when Tom was in a tent somewhere
sleeping so being on-call in the context
of kubernetes is massively more
complicated because I was even though I
did a lot of monitoring work in the
community space already to me it was
mind-boggling about all learning about
all the concepts all the different
dimensions and the troubleshooting
process is just so so difficult because
you can be you basically have to do the
troubleshooting across a couple of these
dimensions that exist along these
kubernetes concepts and troubleshooting
to me is as much about finding the issue
as it is about eliminating where the
issue isn't right and all these
dimensions the existence of those just
add to that complexity so the tools we
use shouldn't really get in a way of
this sometimes they do especially when
go fana makes it really really easy to
modify dashboards and all of a sudden
you have a thousand and then being in
that one call position when you have a
bad time it's not really helping all
right because what you want to do is you
want to have tooling that reduces
cognitive load and doesn't doesn't add
to it and I'm sure everyone here has
been a situation where they just
modified a tiny thing
on a dashboard and save it as a new one
and I guess part of the motivation for
this talk is to give you some guidance
on why you shouldn't be doing this so
the main motivation there is clear now
and I wanted to introduce like a mental
model that helps me think about this and
it's - they're sporting maturity model
should give you some sort of vocabulary
and best practices to talk about these
things with your colleagues and should
also give you some sort of guidance on
where you are also in your - boarding
journey and where you where you could go
so this is it pretty simple we've
already heard this morning in a keynote
or three is a magic number and yeah I
just meant a bit as well by default you
probably just don't really have a
strategy for - boarding and you just
sort of changing some things here some
things there if you if you are a bit
more serious then you try to manage your
- boring a bit more and you try to use
methodical dashboards I'll tell you but
later what this what those are and in
what I think is very high which or a
very mature level is when you try to
optimize that use and you try to
actively combat that sprawl and most
importantly you try to ensure that those
dashboards are consistent by design so
let's dive into those just to reiterate
real quick about sort of bad practices
and for us it was always duplicating a
dashboard so this is one of the also one
of the verse you exit decisions we ever
made was adding this copy tag toggle
there because who here uses tags for
dashboards okay yeah so you probably had
really good intentions doing those but
then someone else later came along and
cloned this dashboard and
maybe just left this thing on but
modified something that was somehow also
represented semantically in one of your
tags and at that point there's diverged
and if you later use those texts to find
your things you end up in this in this
long list of things that this long stuff
dashboards that match now but they're
not representing any more what the tag
meant originally so another problem if
you don't have version control so
basically what happens when you do
modification you hit save if you have
the standard longer fauna instance and
you don't back up your your data or you
don't have your dashboard JSON inverted
control and your graph honor goes away
then you're gonna have a bad time so
this is another characteristic of low
maturity and similarly a behavior that's
that's also a symptom is browsing for
dashboards if you find yourself browsing
a lot like going through these folders
that I'm the introduced I mean they're
really helpful but sometimes you have to
go back and forth and there's to find
the right thing and that's that's that's
the sort of behavior that for a very
mature observability platform kind of
want to get away from so we can do
better let me let me tell a bit more
about what media maturity can look like
so the first thing you can do to prevent
the sprawl of dashboards is to use
template variables who here's using
template variables okay yeah well done
cool so what what we see here already is
a know dashboard for kubernetes you
don't really need a dashboard for each
node obviously because what the things
you want to look at like CPU usage or
usually usage per core is the same the
same panel layout and everything for all
of these nodes right so what you can do
with Cortana for example you
you can register those as template
variables for that dashboard and then
you get this nice drop-down and then you
can have a look through all of these
instances and if you're really clever
you can also do this for various data
sources and as a sort of higher level
template variable and then you can
basically access a lot of different
clusters so let's get to methodical
dashboards what does that mean so
there's a couple of methods out there
that really help you sort of make sense
of what could go wrong in kubernetes
along those areas dimensions they talked
about earlier and one of the popular
ones are the used method and also the
rep methods also two loci here again so
if you click that right method linking I
see another sort way but what's more
important I think is that you don't
really you don't necessarily have to use
any of these but it's good to have a
method so it's good to have a method for
the situation when one of your developer
teams comes to you and says we want to
we want to add a new app what how should
we add the dashboards to this and you
should have an answer for this and
that's going to be your your method so
here's an example now for a user method
dashboard these are actually part of the
kuben is monitoring mixin there's a link
there so the slides are also in the
session attached and this is already a
pretty good view of what a node
represents and also what sort of
troubles and node can have similarly
there is a whole set of dashboards in
this repo so I just took a picture of
what other what other sort of dashboards
are there and for example there's a new
one about persistent volumes and their
little novelists there
so another good approach that we've
identified in addition to methodical
dashboards is a rock Eagle dashboards
and those do a great job at and
summarizing what is going on along those
dimensions and the the big benefit here
is basically to use the power of the
power of trees or like the power of the
lower rhythmic drill down so to say and
you can this really helps in this
elimination process so that you can
quickly see in the in the higher level
tree dashboards that things are okay and
you can move on to the next one and one
of these hierarchies along for
communities for example it could be it's
up to you right but it could be a
cluster name space pod and the question
then becomes or and then all of these
all of these queries will obviously have
to be structured in a way that whatever
is below or whatever is above aggregates
those metrics in a meaningful way and
then the question becomes how do you
navigate between them so the what we do
is that for every graph that we do for
example this is this cluster view broken
down by namespaces the breakdown here in
these queries is always the next little
down right so you can move into the next
level by using by using one of these
drill down links in the table and this
is also part of the kubernetes
monitoring mixing so you can see how
that's being done and a similar
hierarchy hierarchical approach you can
also use inside the the same dashboard
and you can you can use it to represent
how an applicator how data flows through
an application so in here we're using
the the read method again but we use it
in one row per service and so each row
follows the rep method by having the the
request rate and error rate on the left
and having the duration of the latency
on the right and the the really powerful
thing here is that you can sort of you
can see from the top which is the local
answer that the user is not going to see
any errors because there's nothing red
so this is good but there's obviously
something wrong because the lower ones
are red and if we go the other way
so looking at the app there's some red
there but we know that the app relies on
data from the database and by virtue of
the database also being red we get a
bigger if we get a hunch that the error
may be in the database so in just this
vertical structure this vertical
hierarchy inherently leads me towards a
hunch on where where the system is not
working on so one thing to remember or
one thing to keep in mind about these is
that sometimes it's worth splitting up a
service or an app into two different
dashboards mainly because the magnitude
can differ so for example we were on
cortex at microfauna and cortex is a
Prometheus based service and a lot of
data gets being sent all the time
so in let's say it's orders of magnitude
more like a thousand X so if there were
any errors in the query path in the
repast they would just be drowned
visually also in in the if they were the
same if they were in the same - but if
those metrics were aggregated so and
and one more thing one more tip I want
to give is to make the charts themselves
really expressive so that even the
previous ones in the service hierarchies
debuts in color too to give you a quick
and then a quick hint on what's going on
so the top one and top diagram you can
see the only two hundreds are green and
the five hundredths or red someone
decided to color the 4/4 blue I don't
really know what that's about but this
definitely helps to quickly draw a
conclusion on on the state of of this
app and then another another tip that we
can give is to normalize graphs also by
by by the by the y-axis so you instantly
get a feel for how busy something is
this is this is especially useful for
things that track saturation where the
where also the the resources bound as
some index CPU for example and it's also
good to understand how this all works so
again in those take another example here
from the companies monitoring mix-ins
there is there is there is another
there's the whole cluster here and each
of these lines represents a node but we
don't really know how many CPUs the
nodes have because they couldn't it
could just be of different I could have
been provisioned over different size but
the important thing is if we normalize
this by the cpu count or across the
cluster we can definitely say how how
much resources across across the cluster
being used leading up to hundred percent
and I think this is really powerful
because you know because you you reduce
the cognitive load again of having to
make or like having to draw conclusions
on how much space I have left so
just just to go back on template
variables again I do realize that
template variables make it sort of hard
to to navigate through the dashboards
but the main idea is also that that this
is okay and that you actually shouldn't
just navigate through them especially if
you have three level hierarchies and
that what we actually want to encourage
is that you don't really browse through
the dashboards anymore but that you use
alerts to that that have links in them
if they give that link directly it's a
particular dashboard with all those
variables filled in okay and then lastly
the the where should we store the
dashboard code themselves and there is a
couple of initiatives again sycophantic
going on and the most important rule
revolves around improving the
provisioning workflow and we want to
integrate well with github there and as
a designer out there so I think if
you're really interested in this it's
it's worth clicking the link in the
slides and also just go into the issue
13 8 to 3 and comment on it ok so before
we get to the high maturity I just want
to show you another situation in of the
of the Barcelona Metro so who here has
seen these did anyone have did anyone
also have a little trouble there because
because everyone a bus or a lot of
people were still asking to be left
handed but I'm right-handed like I think
the majority of people but maybe I'm
wrong there and so having to take the
ticket out having it in my right hands
and then putting it into this left
turnstile Swiper I don't know that was a
weird contact though not all subway
entrances have it on the left some of
them have it on the right ok
yeah sir I guess a good another good
segue here now is these people that put
it in place
they knew fully well that a lot of
people all right-handed they decided to
do this anyway which you also find
sometimes in a DevOps organization where
people know good practices but they
still deviate so then the question
becomes how can we achieve consistency
by design and before we get into this
let's quickly G let's quickly talk about
sprawl again yeah just look at how happy
this guy is trimming the hedges just
because think about about all these all
these dashboards that you create all
these one-offs they're gonna be in the
way that they're they're gonna be a
sprawling hatch that they're definite
leads to be trimmed and in a very mature
dashboarding organization you will have
someone that goes around and and removes
dashboards that are no longer being used
or you have a very good review process
that that says only dashboards that are
proof can go into the master the master
Cortana for example and then another
cool feature that we're thinking about
internally ingre fauna is to have meta
analytics to basically track the use of
dashboards and of queries to give you
also the idea on which of these could be
able to move potentially so consistency
by design there's a lot going on on this
slide but I want the main takeaway is
that there are libraries out there
scripting libraries that give you high
order functions to generate to generate
certain types of dashboards and the
important thing there is that those
functions can encode for example a query
panel and they they will have options
attached to them and if you if you
didn't only use this little function
call giving it the data source and the
career
you can ensure that all the rows and all
the dashboards that have been created
they will all share the same style and
there's no longer a fight of should we
use line fields or should we use not
line fields and then just by using these
patterns you guarantee across the
organization that that your - more
panels are essentially similar enough so
that people can find their way really
quickly and in my eyes also one of the
biggest benefits is this is the smaller
change sets because if we use higher
order functions you you don't have to
deal with this massive Jason anymore
because you can only come here to
compare let's say the query change for
example so I talked about mix-ins a
couple of times
mix-ins are a set of dashboards and
alerts that are peer reviewed and a lot
of yeah a lot of those resources exist
and I think you should make use of this
even though even if you don't so just
making these mix-ins are the ones I've
been showing you they've written in JSON
it but even though they're written in
JSON it they can still give you or you
can still extract the queries in there
and use them in your own dashboard in
Germany so it's really so it's a really
it's a really good resource to look at
how people people decided to monitor
Prometheus there are other mix-ins for
example for console or other services so
it's worth definitely to watch this this
talk Oh incidentally also might oh okay
yeah and in the future we also really
like a workflow where we can in the
browser I have also haven't an editor to
modify the JSON live so you can then
have that be part of the dashboards code
journey to from the browser to your PR
right away and then ideally also use
these higher-level function languages to
do - to basically have smaller exchange
sets and have a compiler somewhere that
renders the JSON so that you can have
the live preview again but that's a bit
it's a bit future stuff cool so it is a
quick summary again it's good to have we
have a strategy for dashboarding
it's good to start with the goal of
managing the use of methodical
dashboards and then the next step can be
consistency by design I think this is
kind of a summary slide of what what I
had so far and then I basically want to
leave you with two with two kind of main
takeaways one of them is the
dashboarding method that you adopt like
should definitely not get in a way of
people trying to use the dashboards and
the second one is don't be the persona
metric of dashboards
thank you very much David I was the one
who chose blue for 400s okay
what color should they be is the first
question yeah purple purple okay
well luckily as we use JSON it you can
change it in one place that's true
anyway right then who's got a question
for David we've got a few minutes on
someone's got a question you go next
year when you come to Amsterdam combat
bicycle yeah yeah are they UX friendly
or I bet they are he's got a question
come on wave hand there we go hey thank
first of all thanks for the talk in the
great tips I think everyone agrees that
this is a should be way to go
I'm from one of these organizations
where we have literally literally 1800
dashboards we bachelor fana to actually
deal with it so every upstream version
we have to match the queries - yeah with
it
so this or is from a a shared graph Anna
so every team is free to do their own
stuff so if you have any tips on how we
get the organization to a level where we
can enforce or not enforce this where
everyone adheres to this because I know
about it some teams know about it but
there's like 82 development teams that
don't yeah they do the sprawling so yeah
so you sort of answered a question
yourself already because your training
is the internal training is the first
step there to make those developers
aware that that whatever they add to
their graph Anna instance can also get
in a way for other people getting to the
results that they want all right so I
guess maybe sharing the video of this
talk I guess my first step but then also
I can I can also I guess set your bit at
ease that 1800s it's not the biggest
number that we've heard so
good next question Oh looks like we're
done I just want to I want to just say
one more thing sorry okay just wanted to
call out Frederick here and Jack here
and is Matthias in the audience yeah
Matthias over here
these guys were I don't just do the mix
ins on my cert on my own like these guys
have helped me they really run it now
I'm too busy but I wanted to call them
out for the kubernetes mix things has
been super helpful and you've probably
already using it and you don't know it
right if you're using the Prometheus
operator that's the default set of
dashboards that come with it so thanks
very much Ellison thank you David
[Applause]